In this video we can implement Ray casting so that we click and our player moves in a nice seamless
organic way around objects to the point that we've clicked.
Let's jump in and get started.
Okay.
In a moment I'm going to open up my movie scripts.
But first of all I forgot to rename my folder under my scenes folder.
It's still called sample scenes so I'm going to change that to sandbox.
Yes that's neat.
Nice and tidy.
Okay.
Let's look at what we're trying to achieve here.
We've got the player and the player needs to move from A to B what is B well that's where if we click.
So this is the point that we click on our terrain.
What do we do here.
Well we're shooting from our camera camera's gonna be over here somewhere looking at the player from
our camera.
We're going to recast from the camera through our screen and find the point where we've clicked.
And then after we find that point we need to be giving that information back to the player specifically
the player's nav mesh agent component nav mesh agent to say to the nav mesh agent.
This is the particular point we're interested in.
Please navigate make your way to that particular point.
So we need to create ourselves a method that we'll call probably move to cursor and within moved to
cursor we need to be creating the logic of did.
How did our ray hit somewhere on the terrain and where did it hit on the terrain and then moved to that
particular point.
So let's jump in and take that on.
Okay let's find our script open up mover so a little bit of refit narration here is underneath.
Update when to keep if input does get mouse button down.
But instead of having lost Ryan here I'm going to grab my line lost Ray.
Cut that and just pop it down the bottom underneath my debug drop raw draw right.
And you know I'm gonna delete debug draw right.
We don't need that at all.
I'm just gonna get in the way I can within my if statement here I'm gonna start by making a method move
to cursor parentheses semicolon and then just to close up our curly braces and so what is this going
to be.
Well new line we will say private void so no return type.
Move 2 cursor parentheses curly braces what do we want to do.
Well a couple of things we want to create a recast or call a recast method so physics dot Ray cast.
So what we type in we want to show you something in here as soon as you type the parentheses you will
get information about the options for the parameters to put within here for the different signatures.
So hopefully this all makes sense and you remember this from other learning that you've done but for
each time each time we have a method that is often different things that we can put within the parentheses
different parameters we can feed into it.
And here you can see if we click down we get other signatures or other parameters other different constructions
of the parameters that we can put in there.
You see a few of them in here that is taking in vector 3 origin then vector 3 directions.
So that is describing array that starts at an origin and has a particular direction we've talked about
that a bunch.
If I scroll all the way down or click all the way down to the very last one which is 16 so you can see
there's 16 different signatures for cast.
This one is very simple.
It's taking in Ray so it's of type Ray and then a keyword out for a ray cast hit.
And that's what we're gonna do.
We're gonna say what the ray is.
And remember the ray is the origin point and the direction.
Just another way of saying origin and direction is just saying Ray and then we want this out.
Ray cast hit to get some information about well where did you hit and what can we do with that.
We need to know some information about that collision point so we'll come back to this method in a moment
first of all I'm going to create myself a couple of variables local variables within move to cursor
So remember we're only going to be out of use these within move to cursor and not anywhere else.
Not an update not anywhere else within our class.
So this first variable is going to be of type array and we'll call it just straight up Ray.
Nice and clear.
Call it what it is call a duck a duck as they say.
And we are going to go and grab our last ray we had before.
So instead of calling it last ray and call it ray just to make it a little bit more general because
we're using this over and over.
So camera up Main Screen point to Ray input mouse position going to cut that and then pop it in here
as our ray definition so Ray Ray equals.
We have that there.
And our second variable remember if we go back to our signature and if you can't find if you click within
the parentheses in Visual Studio code if you hold down control shift space bar that will bring up the
signatures.
And if you're on a Mac then I'm I believe it's command shift spacebar.
And if you're having trouble finding the shortcut keys then you can come all the way up to help and
look for shortcut references that will take you off to a Web site and this Web site is going to show
you a PDA of all the shortcut keys.
So just a little hint They're not gonna go too much into all the different visual studio code nifty
ness but you can go and have a look at the shortcut keys lot of good stuff in there so.
Control shift space bar and you can see that dot dot dot dot.
Back to what we're talking about before it's the 16th one you can see we're looking for Ray and then
we're looking for out Ray cast hit.
So I need to create of type Ray cast hit if I spell it correctly helps him Ray cast hit with a capital
R and capital H and I'm just going to call this straight up hit.
We could call it Hit information or hit details but we'll call it hit.
Nice and clean.
And then within my method now I can be passing in the parameters of Ray and then karma hit.
So we're passing in Ray and we're passing in hit now what's really interesting is we need to put in
front of hit the keyword out.
So that means it's a little bit confusing but that means we're passing in the parameter hit but we're
also retrieving out using the out keyword and storing in the hit variable information about where the
ray cars hit.
So this is a way for us to be storing the position that Ray cast has hit into out Ray cast hit variable
called hit and the ray cast method itself is a ball.
So what we're going to do is stored as a ball variable so we'll type Ball has hit equals.
So when has hit is true we can do something with it which we'll do in a moment but first want to take
you to the unity docs to have a quick look at recast hit and you can see when we're using Ray cast to
hit that we have a whole bunch of properties that we can access so we can say Ray has hit dot and then
any of these different things and then to use the information within here.
So for example the impact point in world space where the ray hit the collider.
So in other words where do we click.
Within the world that is a very important piece of information.
And some other cool things that we get it can get within here we might play around with these later
on but this is the important one for now is point.
So it be Ray casted dot point we'll get asked the impact point in world space.
OK.
So back within our method in here we've stored this as a ball.
The last thing I'm going to do within my method is create an if statement.
Well actually I say I'm going to create it but I'd like for you to create this as a challenge.
And just to be super clear I'm going to do my little last ray that's hanging down there.
So essentially what we want to do is if we've hit something then move to the point that we hit.
So here is my challenge to finish the move the cursor method create an if statement within that if if
statement if hit is true then change our NAV mesh agents destination to the impact point of our ray
cast hit.
Now I've given you all the information I'm giving you all the clues to figure that out should be a reasonably
straightforward challenge but never fear if you can't figure out give it a good few minutes to figure
it out and then now once you've done that I'll see you back here we'll go through it together
so he's out if statement if has hit.
Which is another way of saying if has he equals true then parenthesis ask curly braces.
We want to grab our get component nav mesh Dot.
Destination.
Equals.
Okay.
Because that's saying where should our NAV mesh agent go to.
What does it equal.
Well I'll show you a moment ago that if we say hit dot point it will take us to the point and then semicolon
take us to the point on our collision wherever we've collided.
That is where the destination is going to be and then just clean it up delete those last couple of lines
that we don't need.
Add one more curly bracket curly brace.
There we go.
And then a final tidy up.
Back up the top we can delete our variable Ray last Ray.
Don't need that anymore.
Well I'm here I'm going to delete the comments around update because we don't need that we know what
update does.
Okay let's save that jump back over into unity.
Wait for it to compile into its magic now.
All going to plan when I click on play and then when I click anywhere in the world my nav mesh agent.
Therefore my player is going to move to that spot.
We can do a little bit of tuning so that our play is moving with a bit more gusto a little bit more
speed.
Click on player scroll down to nav mesh agent and make the speed a little bit quicker.
Let's have a nice fast game sound make that say twelve.
The acceleration I'm going to make 20 stopping distance that is all fine.
So click on play.
Okay.
Running around Yeah a little bit quicker.
And you know his big turning circle that could be the angular speed which is fine but if you are new
to Unity which hopefully you're not.
But if you are on you then you know that you can make some changes here within.
While we're in play mode so I could say make this 500 for angular speed.
And then that will update or prepare.
But as soon as I click out of play mode I will lose those changes and then we'll have to make them again
outside of play mode.
So pretty sure you know this stuff but just reminding you in case you've forgotten or you're a little
bit new to unity.
Okay.
So pretty exciting.
We now have our player moving to wherever we click on our map doing path finding using the nav mesh
to get around obstacles.
Great stuff.
I'll see you in the next video.